START: The smartest guy I know asked me if I wished I was born in the US.
- were talking about shield AI us-based defence firm - and how we'd need US secret service clearance to 
intern there. No comparable companies exist in India today - this brought a larger point about the need 
for more private-sector defence firms in our country.

Shield.Ais best computer-vision systems can detect and track objects just *2 pixels wide.
The defence arm of the Jindal Steel spent 90M USD on one of their drone platorms, but these 
almost certainly come with restrictions. Negotiators have very little leverage
without frontier defence-tech firms of our own. In fact, unrestricted access to frontier technologies has
to be built indigenously.

I've been thinkinig about the kind of work it would take to build
such a firm from the ground up:
- Defence applications need hardened software interfaces operating at microsecond scale latencies.
- Discovering the optimal vision algorithms (the intelligence) needs continuous iteration and research. 
We'd need an evironment of top-tier specialist engineers who are also capable of frontier research. 
I know exactly the people that would join, but we're scattered all over the world right now.
Bringing this team together is going to be exciting.

In the mean time, given my background with the services, I will bear the additional
resonsibility of defining the problem more effectively by taking input from service members.

Systems Architect: Armaan
Embedded Engineer: Tejal (BCN)
ML Theory: Aditya A 
ML Applied: Aditya S 
Physics Theory: Atharva
Mech (Propulsion systems, etc): ...?


SG 1st meet 31/12/2025
- Met commodore sanjoy gupta (i know him through squash)
- Former acns air and squadron-mates with my grandad.
- Spoke about the defence procurement procedures (NSQRs)
- He's going to introduce me to another squadronmate (his junior)
who worked at HAL for a long time but works at an AI firm now
and he's in the defence-tech space.
- Meet to talk about the market dynamics.

Let me know if you want to be involved in this longer term
- would help if I had a partner at this meeting.
Tell me soon, because i'd be looking for someone else.

Notes from SG meet:
DRDO pain points
- Slow as fuck (huge org low motivation)
- On the Navy side - changing NSQRs
Recommendation: NSQRs as guide.

Q. Why do you want to build it?
- It wasn't apparent to sanjoy gupta why I decided to go to defence tech



and how 




Lastly, I find that its helpful to keep in mind who a defence-firm is for. 
Proximity to service-members will help build trust initially.













In nov2024, the defence arm of the jindal steel group signed a 90million USD deal for the purchase of one of 
shield.AI's drone platforms. Shield.Ais best computer-vision systems 
can detect and track objects just *2 pixels wide, but its almost guaranteed that the platforms provided in the deal 
will be restricted through various means.

There are no comparable platforms in our country today, and its
why I believe JSW had very litle leverage fleshing out the details. For example, 



We were talking about shieldAI - they're a startup based in 
the US whose computer-vision systems can detect objects as small as *2 pixels,
comparing the company to homegrown alternatives. Working there needed US SS clearance
and US citizenship.

The second point not said:
He's in the grad-school cycle right now. For international students,
its a tedious process. Dspite being the best at the 
most intense engineering university in the country, 
there's still insecurity about making it. 
Its easy to fantasize, when you're on the 6th revision of you Statement of purpose
trying to convince a group who want to reject you that 
you are worth it. 

I see people queing up in the rain, waiting for the buses
and feel fortunate I can afford an auto or cab at my convenience.

Despite being the best at the most intense engineering university in the country, 
there's still insecurity about making it.

My response - probably due to growing up around navy service members
was - "I was born where I was born".


My smartest friend asked me if I wished I was born in the US.
He intends to specialize in machine learning theory at UC Berkeley - and
he's insecure about his chances despite being one the most capable individuals i've
encountered during my time at IITB. This is natural - for international students, 
grad applications are a tedious process, and UC Berkeley is notoriously selective.

We were talking about shield AI and the need for 

In nov2024, the defence arm of the jindal steel group signed a 90million USD deal for the purchase of one of 
shield.AI's drone platforms. There are no comparable platforms in our country today, and its
why I believe JSW had very litle leverage fleshing out the details. For example, Shield.Ais best computer-vision systems 
can detect and track objects just *2 pixels wide, but its almost guaranteed that the platforms provided in the deal 
will be restricted through various means.

For our country to have unrestricted access to the best in the world, we must build similar systems from
the ground up. I've been thinking about what that would require:
- tasks such as discovering the optimal vision algorithms and implementing robust hardware-software interfaces -
require several rounds of iteration and research.
- Its absolutely necessary to exist in an environment of specialist engineers who are also capable of frontier research.
Such an environment exists at companies like shield.AI, but working there requires US Secret Service Clearance :/

Beyond the technical requirements, 
a strong private-sector firm must 
- Understanding the pain points that the defence operators face working with goverment firms.





Beyond that, through working for the 
Western Railways during my time at IIT Bombay, I've learned how important it is to get 
the opinions of service members.

There's definitely more that will be discovered as we progress, but for now
we have enough information to execute our next steps.


The future looks bright.


My bet is that in the next decade, improvements 
will be driven by creativity at the software layers - we are seeing this trend 
in the latest ML research - newer models are smaller less computationally heavy.



"I was born where I was born". This was my response when my smartest friend asked
As someone who grew up around navy service members



WORKED :) First meet Dec 31 2025
Good evening Sanjoy uncle,
Compliments of the season! Hope you’re well.

Armaan Chowfin here (from squash). I got your number from the Vasco Cycling WhatsApp group.

I’m trying to build a clearer understanding of what a strong private-sector defence firm should focus on, 
and really value your perspective. 
In particular, I'd like to hear your views on the issues military personnel 
and other stakeholders face with defence contractors today.

Can we talk one of these days? I’m in Goa till Saturday morning (3rd Jan).








To me, the purpose of grad school is to immerse myself in a field that
I respect

END: "I was born where I was born". 
And in the ways that I am most capable,
I will work to improve this country.


And its important to contribute to this place
in the ways that i can.


- As someone that grew up around service-members in the Navy,
my country is my country. 

But he brought about a bigger theme - he's in the grad school cycle right now
and were reviewing Sops.
and despite objectively being one of the smartest in the country, 

- and I was in it too last year.
- spent time at two of the most well known universities in India
but still incomparable.
- despite being the best student a the best university in the country,
there's still insecurity about making it. 

The other point that came up - as I researched defence companies in India
not well presented.
- no confidence in the product.


This came up when I learned about shield AI - and one of their 
offerings is the ability to detect objects just 2*2 pixels wide.
Discovered id need US SS clearance to work there. 



Who am I going to sell to:
- Government
- 

What excites me about this work:
- 


Yesterday I discovered shield AI - they're an AI-first defence company based in the US. 
They're also the reason I got excited about this field in the first place
Another - defence is one field where you build competititve advantage
the more you know. I grew up surrounded by service members in the navy - family
and friends.

