 companies that build a physical product being insulated from AI.
I think youre viewing this as an us vs ai problem. In the world i imagine, each of us is becoming an absolute expert in their field - because it necessary to acheive this massive goal. Sure an AI model should be able to come up with the most optimal designs at every level - assume an AI model that can design processors better than the best humans, design aircraft chassis better than the best humans - this wont change the fact that what we're working towards is necessary. In this case AI is a tool, and I am okay with that - assuming building the best product is the goal.

But I think the goal is living a great life. Building a product that enables this for eveyone is the path. We do this because we are uniquely capable of it
Then the questions become - do we enjoy the process of our work? Do we enjoy being trusted by other humans? To me the answer is yes.



each of us is becoming an expert in an area that we are uniquely capable.
Sure an AI model could design better processors than the best humans, better mech designs than the best humans -


this is a doomsday scenario only if we set making the best product as the goal. And atleast to me its unclear whether technical skill is the only contributor to building a great product.

And anyways, I think the goal is living a great life. If we choose a goal each of us is uniquely suited for - building a great product becomes the path to living that great life. The questions are then: Do we enjoy the process of our work? Do we enjoy being trusted by humans?




- because its the ONLY way we can achieve this massive goal.

THinking about what you said about companies insulating from AI
Fine lets say ...
In the world i imagine the goal is living a great life. To me that means each of us is doing our best to be an expert in the fields we're unqiuely suited to - whether that came from upbringing/following our interests over time. Its even more when your work is NECESSARY to achieve this massive goal.

So to me the questions are - do we enjoy the process of our work? Do we enjoy being trusted by other humans? I think in this framework its easier to view AI as a tool...


in the world that i imagine, each of us doing best to be an expert in the field we're uniquely suited to - whether that came from how we were raised or interests over time -a and fine lets say an ai model could design better processor mech design than the best human. -doomsday is building the best product. I think goal is living a great life and enabling people to live that life - and then the qustions become do we enjoy the process of our work? Do we enjoy being trusted by other humans? I think in this framework AI will be a tool to help us acheive a massive goal.


at this point we should know we're better than most people at some things


Threat if the goal is unconditionally building a great technical product.


In the world I imagine, each of us is working to be the best at the thing we're uniquely capable of - my point is by now we should have an idea of things we're better at than most people -a


--
I was talking to a friend last night. He studies ML theory and seems to think that even companies building physical products wont be insulated from AI.
I think he has a fair point - there could be an AI model that can design better chips, better firmware, better mechanical models than any human ever could.
For anyone studying engaging deeply with theoretical Computer Science, the idea of every implementation detail being abstracted away by an AI model is attractive.
I live on the other end of the spectrum - Computer Systems. Here we're dealing with realism.


He views this as an us vs AI problem, and thats where we diverge. I view technically advanced AI as a tool - and its only a threat if we decide unconditionally that our purpose is to build



I believe it technically advanced AI is only a threat if we


- a natural reaction for someone who has been rewarded tremendously for his raw cognitive ability - the very thing AI threatens to devalue.
